docs/howto_publish.rst, before:

How to publish images
=====================

To publish a VMDK file as an image (AMI) on AWS EC2 with `awspub`,
a config file is required.
A basic config file looks like:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal.yaml
   :language: yaml


Calling now `awspub` to publish the image with the name `my-custom-image`.

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  [snipped output]
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image": {
        "ap-south-2": "ami-09559735ad8b1761d",
        "ap-south-1": "ami-02e2094cfd8b42949",
        "eu-south-1": "ami-06cfa6dcd995d5150",
        "eu-south-2": "ami-01d97f93afb5e98a2",
        "me-central-1": "ami-05a0d68fe810e87e4",
        "il-central-1": "ami-072764990baa35777",
        "ca-central-1": "ami-0759edbde42f0a949",
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0f4de621d30b1b0c2",
        "eu-central-2": "ami-05f98e7422d7f404f",
        "us-west-1": "ami-05746ce8a07b4c85e",
        "us-west-2": "ami-0d823cf81bf9bf104",
        "af-south-1": "ami-0e1a9da16c0d961f1",
        "eu-north-1": "ami-0433695e2c7f30543",
        "eu-west-3": "ami-047e60506ddc081f4",
        "eu-west-2": "ami-0788cc3de6c23ec30",
        "eu-west-1": "ami-0f6ae173f20f3ea90",
        "ap-northeast-3": "ami-068b9688c5dfd6849",
        "ap-northeast-2": "ami-0263f347b044130f0",
        "me-south-1": "ami-0eb49224ec76b84a4",
        "ap-northeast-1": "ami-0ec9a6c229f99542b",
        "sa-east-1": "ami-034ef8539bd913dab",
        "ap-east-1": "ami-0d591e1a25fc8a3fc",
        "ap-southeast-1": "ami-056f8946746cbc928",
        "ap-southeast-2": "ami-08171f5e219711961",
        "ap-southeast-3": "ami-03719171326b5b50b",
        "ap-southeast-4": "ami-05e7e801da60f4054",
        "us-east-1": "ami-06e2de427bb61cdb8",
        "us-east-2": "ami-011d41b2eeb9135bd"
      }
    }
  }

The output shows the published image IDs for each region. Those images are not
public so can only be used from within the same account.

.. note::
   The command can be run again without publishing anything new as long as the source path file
   and the config itself doesn't change.


Multiple images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's possible to publish multiple images based on the same VMDK file. The configuration looks like:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-multiple-images.yaml
   :language: yaml

Running `awspub` now will publish 2 images in 2 different regions.

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0f4de621d30b1b0c2"
      },
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "eu-central-2": "ami-0e2350a74c9e6e5c4"
      }
    }
  }

Parameter substitution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are cases where part of the configuration file needs to be dynamic.
`awspub` supports basic template substitution (based on Pythons `string.Template class <https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings>`_) .

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml
   :language: yaml

In this config, the identifier which will be replaced is `$serial`. The mapping
that is used to replace an identifier with a actual value is also a yaml file
which contains a mapping structure (dict in Python) that maps identifiers
to values:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml.mapping
   :language: yaml

Using both together now with `awspub`:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --config-mapping config-mapping.yaml                
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-20171022": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0df443d5919e31d1b"
      }
    }
  }


Image groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There might be cases were the different commands (eg. `awspub create` or `awspub publish`)
should only be applied for a subset of the defined images. That's possible with the `group`
config option:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-groups.yaml
   :language: yaml

Now the different `awspub` commands do have a `--group` parameter to filter which
images this command should operate on::

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create docs/config-samples/config-minimal-groups.yaml --group group1
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-1": {
        "us-west-1": "ami-09461116d07dd6604"
      }
    }
  }

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create docs/config-samples/config-minimal-groups.yaml --group group2
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "us-east-1": "ami-018539227554e51fe",
        "ca-central-1": "ami-071d3602417c28201"
      }
    }
  }


So the first command only works with images defined in `group1` while the second command only with
images defined within `group2`.

.. note::
   If no `--group` parameter is given, the different commands operate on **all** defined images.


Public images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To make images public, the configuration needs to have the `public` flag set for
each image that needs to be public.

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-public.yaml
   :language: yaml

The the image needs to be created and published:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  awspub public config.yaml

Commit message:

feat: add image specific tags
Tags are useful to attach to the created resources. For specific
images it might be useful to either override the defined tags or
define tags which are only added to the specific image. That's
implemented here with a new optional "tags" config field for each
image.

docs/howto_publish.rst, after:

How to publish images
=====================

To publish a VMDK file as an image (AMI) on AWS EC2 with `awspub`,
a config file is required.
A basic config file looks like:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal.yaml
   :language: yaml


Calling now `awspub` to publish the image with the name `my-custom-image`.

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  [snipped output]
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image": {
        "ap-south-2": "ami-09559735ad8b1761d",
        "ap-south-1": "ami-02e2094cfd8b42949",
        "eu-south-1": "ami-06cfa6dcd995d5150",
        "eu-south-2": "ami-01d97f93afb5e98a2",
        "me-central-1": "ami-05a0d68fe810e87e4",
        "il-central-1": "ami-072764990baa35777",
        "ca-central-1": "ami-0759edbde42f0a949",
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0f4de621d30b1b0c2",
        "eu-central-2": "ami-05f98e7422d7f404f",
        "us-west-1": "ami-05746ce8a07b4c85e",
        "us-west-2": "ami-0d823cf81bf9bf104",
        "af-south-1": "ami-0e1a9da16c0d961f1",
        "eu-north-1": "ami-0433695e2c7f30543",
        "eu-west-3": "ami-047e60506ddc081f4",
        "eu-west-2": "ami-0788cc3de6c23ec30",
        "eu-west-1": "ami-0f6ae173f20f3ea90",
        "ap-northeast-3": "ami-068b9688c5dfd6849",
        "ap-northeast-2": "ami-0263f347b044130f0",
        "me-south-1": "ami-0eb49224ec76b84a4",
        "ap-northeast-1": "ami-0ec9a6c229f99542b",
        "sa-east-1": "ami-034ef8539bd913dab",
        "ap-east-1": "ami-0d591e1a25fc8a3fc",
        "ap-southeast-1": "ami-056f8946746cbc928",
        "ap-southeast-2": "ami-08171f5e219711961",
        "ap-southeast-3": "ami-03719171326b5b50b",
        "ap-southeast-4": "ami-05e7e801da60f4054",
        "us-east-1": "ami-06e2de427bb61cdb8",
        "us-east-2": "ami-011d41b2eeb9135bd"
      }
    }
  }

The output shows the published image IDs for each region. Those images are not
public so can only be used from within the same account.

.. note::
   The command can be run again without publishing anything new as long as the source path file
   and the config itself doesn't change.


Multiple images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's possible to publish multiple images based on the same VMDK file. The configuration looks like:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-multiple-images.yaml
   :language: yaml

Running `awspub` now will publish 2 images in 2 different regions.

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0f4de621d30b1b0c2"
      },
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "eu-central-2": "ami-0e2350a74c9e6e5c4"
      }
    }
  }

Parameter substitution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are cases where part of the configuration file needs to be dynamic.
`awspub` supports basic template substitution (based on Pythons `string.Template class <https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings>`_) .

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml
   :language: yaml

In this config, the identifier which will be replaced is `$serial`. The mapping
that is used to replace an identifier with a actual value is also a yaml file
which contains a mapping structure (dict in Python) that maps identifiers
to values:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml.mapping
   :language: yaml

Using both together now with `awspub`:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --config-mapping config-mapping.yaml                
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-20171022": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0df443d5919e31d1b"
      }
    }
  }


Image groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There might be cases were the different commands (eg. `awspub create` or `awspub publish`)
should only be applied for a subset of the defined images. That's possible with the `group`
config option:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-groups.yaml
   :language: yaml

Now the different `awspub` commands do have a `--group` parameter to filter which
images this command should operate on:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create configyaml --group group1
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-1": {
        "us-west-1": "ami-09461116d07dd6604"
      }
    }
  }

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --group group2
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "us-east-1": "ami-018539227554e51fe",
        "ca-central-1": "ami-071d3602417c28201"
      }
    }
  }


So the first command only works with images defined in `group1` while the second command only with
images defined within `group2`.

.. note::
   If no `--group` parameter is given, the different commands operate on **all** defined images.


Public images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To make images public, the configuration needs to have the `public` flag set for
each image that needs to be public.

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-public.yaml
   :language: yaml

The the image needs to be created and published:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  awspub public config.yaml


Resource tags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The different resources (S3 objects, snapshots and AMIs) can have tags.
`awspub` defines some base tags which are prefixed with `awspub:`.
In addition to those tags, there's a `tags` config where tags
for all resources can be defined:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-tags.yaml
   :language: yaml

This config will add the tag(s) defined to all resources.
It's also possible to define image specific tags:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-image-tags.yaml
   :language: yaml

"my-custom-image-1" would have the common tag "tag-key" plus the image specific
tag "key1".
"my-custom-image-2" would have the common tag "tag-key" but the value would be
overwritten with "another-value" because image specific tags override the common tags.
